For this assignment I used the libraries matplotlib and beautiful soup to graphically represent information on the current pandemic, as well as some previous pandemics. I web scraped from a website that has real-time updates of worldwide covid-19 cases, as well as deaths and recovery. Using matplotlib, I presented various types of graphs to get a handle on learning what this library has to offer. The graphs included line, bar, and pie. 

The next part of the project was to use the real-time worldwide cases to plot the data on a line graph, and have this update dynamically with the new date on the x axis and the current cases on the y axis if the current day is not yet included in the graph. To get this part under way, I had to make use of the today() function to get the current date, and compare that to a text file containing dates. If the date is not in the file, it is added. Along with the date, the web scraped covid-19 cases are inserted into the text file on the same line. I was then able to read and split from the file to grab both the dates and cases, put them into lists, and use those lists for the graph. To do this I ended up using a lambda twice.  Though there were initially numerous bugs in the code, eventually I was able to work out the issues and successfully represent these values graphically.

Some struggles I overcame were the errors in types – some calculations were stored in variables but used types like float rather than int which caused issues in the graphs. Likewise, writing to the text file and storing the contents into variables required changing from ints to strings and vice versa. Some of these variable type changes were not caught until nearly the end of the code. 

Other struggles included the general idea of how to represent a graph that updates dynamically – I needed the ability to add a new current date to a list of dates. After some planning I decided it would be best to use a text file to store the dates, add to the dates, and read from the file into a list. Additionally I needed to store the number of covid-19 cases per day, which I similarly decided to place in the text file. After this I had to work out bugs in using functions like split(), read(), write(), and using lambdas.

To a future student, I would the give advice of embracing the tutorials – I had not worked with the matplotlib library before, and the tutorials I used were immensely helpful. I took several pages of notes and learned the syntax of how to represent what I wanted, how to style the graphs, apply labels, change colors, and so on. After learning the basics of the libraries, a future student can apply more time to planning and using multiple functions in involved ways such as the real-time graph that I made.

The most fun aspect of the assignment was using the matplotlib library. There was a lot to learn about choosing graphs, styling them, and representing data. I feel like this library is a unique aspect to my assignment, as it was not used in previous assignments. 

The most challenging aspect of the assignment was planning and constructing the dynamically updated graph. It involved many different steps to get a working data set that updates by itself.

Suggestions for improving the assignment in the future might be to mandate using a new library not covered in class. This makes the final assignment unique, as all past assignments were, and gives students more familiarity to various libraries in python. These libraries are very helpful in different situations and different purposes, and it only helps to learn more of them.

I had a great time in python, and ended up learning a lot. On the first day of class I did not know any python, but as the course progressed I become more familiar with the syntax and libraries. Here at the end, I feel like I learned a great deal and was successfully able to implement a program from scratch and use a library I had not learned previously. I am proud that I was able to create the dynamically updated graph – a big accomplishment when I look back to the first day of class where my experience was nonexistent. I would like to thank you for an awesome term and I look forward to continuing learning python after this course ends.
